mqls versus sqls what's the difference
and which one should you focus on hey
i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host of the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
so first of all what is an mql and what
is an sql well mql is a marketing
qualified lead and sql stands for sales
qualified lead
some examples mqls are typically
generated via things like
email sign up so if you sign up for a
mailing list and if you sign up for a
webinar if you download a white paper a
guide a how-to video all these kind of
things and typically they are top of the
sales funnel
leads
so if you think of
sales funnel
like uh quite a fat shaped literally a
funnel with a lot coming in from the top
and as you go down and down the funnel
gets narrower and narrower and narrower
until you get to sales qualified ops
that are pretty much ready to buy ready
to be closed ready to win deals there
for the taking
so if you think of the funnel right at
the top you've got what goes in which is
possible possibly marketing qualified
leads which could be people signing up
for your email newsletter signing up for
a webinar
downloading some kind of guide some kind
of marketing material then they need to
be nurtured over time so usually those
kind of inquiries are nurtured either
via
email sequences perhaps via social
perhaps via content or a mixture of all
the above maybe there's a bit of calling
and until they're ready to speak to a
salesperson then the sales rep will
essentially qualify them so check
they're actually fitting the customer
profile that you want to be dealing with
check they've got things like budget
authority and they can do business with
you and then it turns into a sales
qualified lead so it's only once the
prospect goes from just being any type
of lead to going through a qualification
process whether that is digitally or
whether it is with a sales rep that they
turn into sales qualified opportunity or
sales qualified lead and sql so we've
talked about how you can generate mqls
and how you can turn those mqls into
sqls but how do you get sql straight
away so how can you get sales qualified
ops without the rigmarole of generating
low intent leads and then turning them
into high intent needs well you can do
things like run seo you can run paid ads
sponsored ads perhaps you could do a
podcast over time and then maybe this
directs someone to a landing page or
your website where they fill in a demo
request or they fill in a detailed
inquiry form perhaps they put their name
email phone number perhaps they put in
for about their budget perhaps they put
info about their goals so they're going
through these forms they're actually
showing that they've got high intent
because they've come through an intent
channel searching directly for your
offering they've put in quite a lot of
detail and depth and they've almost
qualified themselves before they speak
into a sales rep yes they might need to
still speak to sales just to go through
your qualification process check they
fit your idle client profile and they're
ready to do business with you and they
fill in a few other tick boxes that
perhaps your business has got to make
sure they're a good match
but that's how you do it so you run ads
or you run content through high intent
channels be it seo be it paid ads
be it social so linkedin for b2b maybe
it's video maybe it's a podcast then
directing someone to a landing page or
to a website
and then they inquire directly through
you and go through some kind of
qualification process so now we know how
to generate both
which should you focus on
well with mqls it's a bit of a volume
game because if we go back to the big
fat funnel you're gonna need a lot of
marketing qualified leads going in to
start with that go through the process
of qualifications speaking to sales
being nurtured until they eventually
turn into
sql sales qualified leads and even then
they've got to be worked for a sales
process until they eventually turn into
closed one business so if you're a
larger scale enterprise large-scale
organization yes you can run things like
webinars you can run er newsletters you
can set up a bunch of guides perhaps you
can run paid content to those guides and
you can generate hundreds if not
thousands of mqls that might turn into
several sales qualified leads that then
your team need to work to close into one
business
fine
but on the other end of the scale if you
perhaps don't have the manpower the time
the budget you might want to think about
focusing on sqls to begin with so that
might be running paid ads running things
like seo
running content whether you're putting
it on linkedin or other social channels
like facebook instagram depending on
your customers where your customers
actually hang out
and then perhaps doing other forms of
digital marketing to drive people to
your website or to landing pages to then
go through filling out some kind of demo
request or form however your company
works to then generate a high intent
lead of someone who's ready to talk to
you about a sales opportunity
so in summary there's nothing wrong with
focusing on both just understanding
where your organization's at and if
you're a smaller corporation you
probably want to focus on generating
better qualified sales leads initially
and then perhaps as you grow looking at
ways to generate marketing qualified
leads whether that's putting out guides
and ebooks whether that is putting out
courses or whether that is putting out
different kind of webinars white papers
etc to generate those topper funnel
leads for people that aren't quite aware
of you and nurturing them along the
sales cycle whilst you're still
generating high intent leads with things
like paid ads seo etc hope this video
has been of use to you as always if you
enjoyed it do hit that subscribe button
and if you are on the audio podcast a
review is or rating is very much
appreciated and with that i shall catch
you on the next one cheers